---
title: "Optimizing Your CV: Is a 2-column format the next best thing?"
date: 2023-04-26
---

# Introduction

As a female engineer who is passionate about career development, I recently had the opportunity to attend a Women in Engineering event where I had the chance to discuss my CV with a global HR representative. 

The insights and feedback I received were eye-opening and valuable in shaping my approach to CV optimization. In particular, the HR representative emphasized the power of using a 2-column format to create a strong first impression and effectively highlight key information. 

In this blog post, I'm excited to share what I learned and if it is really worth it to switch to a 2-column format to optimize your own CV for maximum impact. Let's dive in and uncover the secrets of creating a standout CV that captures attention and opens doors to exciting career opportunities.

# Debating the 2-Column Format

What are the advantages of a 2-column CV format [1](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/resumes-cover-letters/two-column-resume)?
- **More scannable**: a 2-column format can be advantageous in making a CV easier to navigate.
- **More flexible**: this layout allows for efficient use of space and better organization of information.
- **More modern**: it creates a clean and visually appealing look that results more modern than a 1-column format.

On the other hand, this layout can be unsuitable for ATS (Applicant Tracking Systems), which are softwares used to scan applications automatically. Moreover, depending on the HR representative, some old-school HR representatives might have a preference for the traditional look. 

Summing up, it really seems to depend on personal preference, but there is a clear trend towards 2-column formats, at least on platforms like [Canva](canva.com). For some issues like going through ATS, you can google "ATS friendly 2 column CV templates" or refer to a resume-building website like [enancv](https://enhancv.com/pricing/). There are also online scanners (i.e. [ResumeWorded](https://resumeworded.com/resume-scanner)) that should tell you if your CV would pass ATS scans and other metrics.

# Key-points of an Effective CV

Apart from the format debate, she made another good point, which is that the most important information should be easily found on the first page of the CV. These essential informations are:
- **Your personal sales pitch**: a sentence or two about yourself (a lot of good examples are an online search away).
- **Work experience**: company, role, dates and a few bullet points for main responsablities.
- **Studies**: university, completed in xxxx, for Bachelor and Master if it applies (at some point no-one cares about high school anymore).
- **Languages**: native and others with their A1 - C2 levels (approximate is ok, but you could be tested so be honest).

In my case, most information was there, although slightly cluttered. My faux-pas was to put the languages I speak in the back of the CV.
All this information should be presented in bullet points and never longer than a line or two.

# Conclusion

Since this conversation, I have build my CV in a 2-column format. What previously fit in 1.5 pages is now taking a roomy single page. I have also simplifies a bunch of very long sentences that understandably would have given a headache to anyone. And finally, my language section is well visible!

Thank you for reading, I hope this short overview was useful. Would you switch to a 2-column format, or have you already?
